README.md, before:

# FIWARE Cepheus

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus)
[![Coverity Scan Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5913/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5913)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus?branch=master)
[![Docs Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/fiware-cepheus/badge/?version=latest)](https://readthedocs.org/projects/fiware-cepheus/)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker%20pulls-262%20MB-blue.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/orangeopensource/fiware-cepheus/)
[![Support badge]( https://img.shields.io/badge/support-sof-yellowgreen.svg)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fiware)
[![GNU GPL Version 2 Licence](http://img.shields.io/:license-gpl2-blue.svg)](LICENSE.txt)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-join%20chat%20→-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

This is the code repository for the Fiware-Cepheus project.

This project is part of [FIWARE](http://www.fiware.org) under the IoT Data Edge Consolidation GE project.
Check also the [FIWARE Catalogue entry for Cepheus](http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/iot-data-edge-consolidation-ge-cepheus)

### Renaming

The previous name of the project was "EspR4FastData".
It was renamed to a more generic name (using the convention of other FIWARE Generic Enablers).

## Overall description

Fiware-Cepheus provides NGSI-compatible gateway level components.
This project contains two Spring Boot applications:

* cepheus-cep: A CEP (Complex Event Processor) engine.
* cepheus-broker: A light broker (NGSI forwarding-only).

NGSI v1 implementation is provided by the [Orange-OpenSource/fiware-ngsi-api](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-ngsi-api) library.

## Quick instructions

You can find the complete build and installation instructions for each components in the administrator guide [here](doc/admin).

### Requirements

* JAVA 8
* Maven 2 (for build)
* OS/CPU supported by [Sqlite-JDBC](https://github.com/xerial/sqlite-jdbc) (for cepheus-broker)

### Build via Maven

    git clone https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus.git
    cd fiware-cepheus
    mvn clean install

### Installing from Docker

Using Docker is the fastest way to have a working setup :

    docker pull orangeopensource/fiware-cepheus

Our docker manual can be found [here](docker/README.md)

### Installing from Debian packaging

Using `mvn install` will create two debian packages: cepheus-cep-{version}.deb and cepeheus-lb-{version}.deb.
Then you can install these packages lauching :

    dpkg -i cepheus-cep-{version}.deb
    dpkg -i cepheus-broker-{version}.deb

### Running

The project provides two SpringBoot applications. You can run them simply with:

    java -jar cepheus-cep.jar
    java -jar cepheus-broker.jar

## Documentation

The user & programming guide can be found under the [/doc](doc) folder.
It is also available though readthedocs.org: [User guide](http://fiware-cepheus.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

The administrator manual can be found under the [/doc/admin](doc/admin) folder.
It is also available though readthedocs.org: [Administrator manual](http://fiware-cepheus.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

## Examples

Some simple examples to learn how to use Cepheus-CEP and Cepheus-Broker can be found under the [doc/examples](doc/examples) folder.

### LinkSprite-NGSI Sample

An example to use a Raspberry Pi with LinkSprite sensors and actuators communicating with Cepheus can be found [here](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus/tree/linksprite-ngsi)

## License

FIWARE Cepheus is licensed under the [GNU General Public License Version 2](LICENSE.txt).

## Support

Ask your programming questions using [Stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fiware) and your general questions on [FIWARE Q&A](https://ask.fiware.org/questions/).
In both cases please use the tags `fiware` and `fiware-cepheus`.

Commit message:

Added README section to clarify the project status

README.md, after:

# FIWARE Cepheus

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus)
[![Coverity Scan Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5913/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5913)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus?branch=master)
[![Docs Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/fiware-cepheus/badge/?version=latest)](https://readthedocs.org/projects/fiware-cepheus/)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker%20pulls-262%20MB-blue.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/orangeopensource/fiware-cepheus/)
[![Support badge]( https://img.shields.io/badge/support-sof-yellowgreen.svg)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fiware)
[![GNU GPL Version 2 Licence](http://img.shields.io/:license-gpl2-blue.svg)](LICENSE.txt)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-join%20chat%20→-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

This is the code repository for the Fiware-Cepheus project.

This project is part of [FIWARE](http://www.fiware.org) under the IoT Data Edge Consolidation GE project.
Check also the [FIWARE Catalogue entry for Cepheus](http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/iot-data-edge-consolidation-ge-cepheus)

## Status

The current project is in *maintenance* mode: This means that no new features will be added, nor issues fixed by the original team.

Feel free however to fork the project and contribute issues and pull requests if you feel the community can benefit of your work. We will gladely review changes and merge any viable contributions.

## Overall description

Fiware-Cepheus provides NGSI-compatible gateway level components.
This project contains two Spring Boot applications:

* cepheus-cep: A CEP (Complex Event Processor) engine.
* cepheus-broker: A light broker (NGSI forwarding-only).

NGSI v1 implementation is provided by the [Orange-OpenSource/fiware-ngsi-api](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-ngsi-api) library.

### Renaming

The previous name of the project was "EspR4FastData".
It was renamed to a more generic name (using the convention of other FIWARE Generic Enablers).

## Quick instructions

You can find the complete build and installation instructions for each components in the administrator guide [here](doc/admin).

### Requirements

* JAVA 8
* Maven 2 (for build)
* OS/CPU supported by [Sqlite-JDBC](https://github.com/xerial/sqlite-jdbc) (for cepheus-broker)

### Build via Maven

    git clone https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus.git
    cd fiware-cepheus
    mvn clean install

### Installing from Docker

Using Docker is the fastest way to have a working setup :

    docker pull orangeopensource/fiware-cepheus

Our docker manual can be found [here](docker/README.md)

### Installing from Debian packaging

Using `mvn install` will create two debian packages: cepheus-cep-{version}.deb and cepeheus-lb-{version}.deb.
Then you can install these packages lauching :

    dpkg -i cepheus-cep-{version}.deb
    dpkg -i cepheus-broker-{version}.deb

### Running

The project provides two SpringBoot applications. You can run them simply with:

    java -jar cepheus-cep.jar
    java -jar cepheus-broker.jar

## Documentation

The user & programming guide can be found under the [/doc](doc) folder.
It is also available though readthedocs.org: [User guide](http://fiware-cepheus.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

The administrator manual can be found under the [/doc/admin](doc/admin) folder.
It is also available though readthedocs.org: [Administrator manual](http://fiware-cepheus.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

## Examples

Some simple examples to learn how to use Cepheus-CEP and Cepheus-Broker can be found under the [doc/examples](doc/examples) folder.

### LinkSprite-NGSI Sample

An example to use a Raspberry Pi with LinkSprite sensors and actuators communicating with Cepheus can be found [here](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/fiware-cepheus/tree/linksprite-ngsi)

## License

FIWARE Cepheus is licensed under the [GNU General Public License Version 2](LICENSE.txt).

## Support

Ask your programming questions using [Stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fiware) and your general questions on [FIWARE Q&A](https://ask.fiware.org/questions/).
In both cases please use the tags `fiware` and `fiware-cepheus`.
